(whistling)
(finger snaps)
Alright. Let's move into some code logs.
Before we do that we need to set up
what's called build step.
The reason behind that is because Flexbox is actually been
around for quite a while.
However its gone through three different iterations
of how Flexbox works.
And as these things came out,
Chris Coyier got an awesome little article here, about it.
As it came out browser ship,
there is still quite a few browsers out there that either
implement the old version of Flexbox
or there are some device that have vendor prefix
Flexbox so if you try to run any of these
demos just straight up in any other browser other
then most recent Chrome or Firefox you are gonna run
into a bunch of issues.
So luckily for us we don't have to figure out what
all of the different things are.
We can just run our code through a compiled step so.
Here is another silly example I was looking at.
The flex-basis documentation on mdm for flex-basis.
It says a brief history it was originally flex-basis auto
then they changed it to main size then they changed
it back so clearly when they were fleshing out
Flexbox there was a lot of confusion and maybe
a little disagreement as to what was going on.
But never fear we have this thing called autoprefixer
and you may have actually heard of it before.
And what autoprefixer does it it just takes your code
and the idea is we write our code with the latest and
cleanest flexbox spec.
So I just got some of the code we did here on one of the
other ones.
I am going to paste it in,
and what it will do,
holy shit look what it does.
It takes your nice clean flexbox code and it will just
prefix all of the possible vendor prefixes
as well as
the older display box.
So you've got display web kit box, ms flexbox, flex.
Box orient vertical
etc. etc. etc.
There is no way to possibly maintain this by hand.
It's not like you are just doing transition
and web kit transition its just way to hard
To be able to maintain it all.
So the idea is we are going to have a build step
that looks at all of our stuff.
Let me get centered here.
Got that back in real quick.
So the idea is we are going to write the code here
and it is going to be built.
So we are going to be using Gulp.js
there's tons of different
ways you can use autoprefixer to compile your code.
You may have heard of code kit or preproc or
any of these other apps.
Even if you just paste your code into here and have
it spit it out the other end.
However ideally I would have something that watches our
css and every time we save it,
it is going to recompile it into this.
So if you are familiar with Grunt or Gulp and you know what
autoprefixer is then feel free to totally skip this
entire video and move onto the next one.
But if you are new to Gulp I am going to cowboy it and
install it from scratch and show you how I get something
set up like this.
I have an entire book and video series on Gulp coming out
but this should get you up and running
for at least just autoprefixer.
So first thing you need is have nodejs installed, if you
don't have node installed, or if you are not sure.
What you can check is just go to your terminal.
So on your computer there is going to be a terminal
application or there will be one called
powershell on windows and
you just type node minus V
and if you get a number back that means you have node
installed,
if you don't get anything back at all that means you need
to go to nodejs.org and click the downloads.
Next next next it gives you a nice little installer.
So when you have that opened we are going
to head over to the command line in here.
And just go into the directory of where you have something.
So I have just got some index an hml file
I will show you in here.
An index hml file we are not going to be touching that.
And this is just the css that that we are going to be
autoprefixing, so that's it.
We need a couple more files to get up and running.
The first one is what's called a packaged json file
I won't get into it to much but essentially tracks your
dependancies.
Its gonna track the versions in which plug ins we need
installed do to do that you type npm and hit enter
and its just going to give you a whole bunch of
different questions here.
For our case we are okay to just keep hitting enter
enter enter until you're back at the command line.
And you will see that created a package json file and there
is just some information we will be looking at that in
just a second.
Next up what we want to do is install Gulp.
So you can type you'll need to install Gulp twice actually.
You'll need to install Gulp globally.
The way you do that is you type in npm gulp dash g and that
will install it globally on your entire machine.
If you get issues with that go ahead and put a
pseudo npm gulp dash g in front of it.
Sometimes people don't have the correct permissions to run
install on the global level so you have to type sudo
here I will show you and hit enter and its going to ask you
for your password.
You type in your password it won't show anything up here
but I just typed mine and you hit enter and it will
go ahead and install.
I am not going to install it because I already have it.
And the other thing that you need to do know is
we need to create a Gulp file and the Gulp file is going
to hold the process for what we are doing so I am gonna
say touch gulp file.js and that's going to make a blank
gulp file for me there.
And then we actually need to go ahead and install a couple
plug ins That we need so we need a local version of gulp.
We would install as npm install gulp and we want to say
dash dash save dev that will do is it will go off and
install the gulp thing for us but if you go back to your
package json you should see that gulp is added to your
dependancies what else did we need in there?
We actually need gulp sorry npm install gulp
dash autoprefixer dash dash save.
We are going to install that as well.
There we go, its in there cool.
We will close that down,
then we head into our gulp file and this is how you write
a gulp file.
You say gulp equals require gulp and that's gonna
include the entire gulp library.
And we also need to include the plug ins we want.
In our case we only have autoprefixer but you might have
sas or les or whatever you are using here.
So we will say autoprefixer equals
require gulp
dash autoprefixer.
Then we are going to make a task.
Say gulp dot task, task takes two things first is
a name in cult style and second thing is a function to run
so I am just going to pass in an anonymous function there.
Next thing we need to do is go ahead and source our files.
So the way gulp works is you go and grab contents
of your file we will run it through our files and
in this case just run it through autoprefixer and
then we will kick it out the other end in another file
called like build slash styles css.
So we will say gulp dot src and I'm going to go into my
css directory and styles dot css and by the way this can
be any file if you have a different set up.
You can always do star dot css or you could do
star star dot css and that will grab all of them.
It depends on how you are set up.
I'm going to leave mine as
Styles dot css, css styles I will type pipe.
And the way that Gulp works is
you pipe the contents of the style css into
autoprefixer.
And then once we have done that we can type pipe it
into another one called gulp dot guest.
And I will just pipe that into a directory called build
or whatever you want so what that should do,
you'll have to play around with the folders here but
what that should do is we should be able to go back to
our comand line now
and run gulp task we just created, which is styles.
Hit enter and oh I've got an error.
So lets see what we got here.
css syntax error missed semi colon.
Oh that's nice, it's telling me I screwed up my css here.
I am going to go look where its at
oh there we go.
I will try to quickly add it in later.
Then we go back and rerun you can hit the up arrow
to get the most recently run task there.
There we go, it ran it.
I should be able to open this build directory
and inside of that we can see styles css.
Beautiful
autoprefix styles have been added on there.
So you would go to html and your link would not
go to css styles
css because that is your unprefixed version.
We actually want to go into build forward slash styles.
That should do it for us, the last thing we want to do is
add what is called a watched app.
I don't want to have to manually rerun gulp styles
every time I rerun my compiler,
I want it to do it automatically.
So you head back to your gulp file and we will make
another task called default and actually I will
call it a watch there and inside of that we will pass
another one but instead of doing a gulp dot source
like we have been doing.
You can do a gulp dot watch and pass it a list of css files
in this case it's just the one that you wish to watch.
And then when those change, you can pass it a array of
styles to run, sorry array of gulp tasks to run.
So in our case our task name is style so we are gonna say.
Just rerun styles whenever this file changes.
Now I am gonna go back here and instead of typing
gulp styles I'll type gulp watch.
You will notice that it doesn't kick me back to
the command line why?
Because it is watching it.
I should be able to go back to the css file and
every time I save, see there we go.
It will just save save save every time I save
its going to rerun my styles task and going to update
all of the code they have, so real quick.
If I open up
the build
css,
open it up there and I change this to 450,
immediately you will see it has changed there.
If I bring this one down to 360 save,
you see its compiled there and this one updates right away.
Really nice clean and fast way to get our code to compile.
So that is Gulp autoprefixer,
definitely need that in order to support all
the different browsers even the current browsers.
Alright lets get into the code alongs,
I will see you in the next video.
(upbeat music)